README.md, before:

Table of Contents
=================

  * [url_monitor](#url_monitor)
    * [Simple Installation](#simple-installation)
        * [Requirements](#requirements)
        * [Redhat install](#redhat-install)
        * [On other platforms](#on-other-platforms)
    * [<i></i> Basic Command Options](#-basic-command-options)
    * [<i></i>  Simple Plugin Usage on the CLI](#--simple-plugin-usage-on-the-cli)
      * [Running a check](#running-a-check)
      * [Return low level discovery items](#return-low-level-discovery-items)
    * [<i></i> Basic Configuration Options](#-basic-configuration-options)
      * [<i></i>Log level](#log-level)
      * [<i></i>Identity Providers](#identity-providers)
      * [<i></i>Example of of an API testSet configuration](#example-of-of-an-api-testset-configuration)
          * [Test Elements](#test-elements)
      * [<i></i>Zabbix host config](#zabbix-host-config)
          * [item_key_format details](#item_key_format-details)
    * [<i></i>Complete Example](#complete-example)
      * [<i></i>Configure a webcheck in URL_monitor](#configure-a-webcheck-in-url_monitor)
      * [<i></i>Configure Zabbix UI](#configure-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Create Zabbix url_monitor template](#create-zabbix-url_monitor-template)
        * [<i></i>Configure low-level discovery in Zabbix UI](#configure-low-level-discovery-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Configure Item Prototypes in Zabbix UI](#configure-item-prototypes-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Configure basic triggers in Zabbix UI](#configure-basic-triggers-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Create host item in Zabbix](#create-host-item-in-zabbix)
    * [<i></i>Licenses](#licenses)
    * [<i></i>Issues](#issues)
    * [<i></i>Development](#development)
    * [<i></i>Authors](#authors)

url_monitor
==========

It's a Zabbix plugin in Python that creates low level discovery items to monitor items/metrics in a JSON API. It supports multiple requests auth backends including oauth, basicauth, or your own custom requests auth  plugins. This plugin also reports metrics as items using the Zabbix_sender method supporting custom item key formats.

Simple Installation
------------------

#### Requirements
Python 2.7 or greater (2.6.6 or greater with spec file)
python-daemon does not work with py 2.6.6 in pip.

#### Redhat install
`make rpms` (on a redhat platform) and then install the generated artifact on your target system. 

#### On other platforms 
`python setup.py install`

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i> Basic Command Options
------------------
	usage: url_monitor [--help] [-h] [-V] [--key [KEY]] [--datatype [DATATYPE]] [-c CONFIG]
	              COMMAND
	
	positional arguments:
	  COMMAND

    optional commands:
      check
      discover
	
	optional arguments:
	  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
	  -V, --version         show program's version number and exit
	  --key [KEY], -k [KEY]
	                        Optional with `check` command. Can be used to run
	                        checks on a limited subset of item headings under
	                        testSet from the yaml config.
	  --datatype [DATATYPE], -t [DATATYPE]
	                        Required with `discover` command. This filters objects
	                        from the config that have a particular datatype. This
	                        data is used by low level discovery in Zabbix.
      -c [CONFIG], --config [CONFIG]
                            Specify custom config file, system default
                            /etc/url_monitor.yaml
      --loglevel [LOGLEVEL] Specify custom loglevel override. Available options
                            [debug, info, warn, critical, error, exceptions]

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i>  Simple Plugin Usage on the CLI
------------------
### Running a check
These two commands are used by the plugin  commands that the plugin uses for value transmission to Zabbix.

``$ url_monitor check`` Will run through all tests, collect the metrics and send a Zabbix item for each. Any checks with an error will return a failed check and exit of 1 for Zabbix.

``$ url_monitor check --key testSet_Name``
Will run a paticular test in the testSet. Useful for testing or custom setups.

To see what typical output could look like [see this section.](#configure-a-webcheck-in-url_monitor)

--- 

### Return low level discovery items
Low level discovery is used with the discover option.

``$ url_monitor discover --type strings``
This will look in the config for all testSet items that have the datatype strings set, and will expose the low level discovery format for Zabbix to create the items.

Running ``$ url_monitor discover`` will tell you which datatypes are available.




<i class="icon-file"></i> Basic Configuration Options
------------------
###  <i class="icon-book"></i>Log level
Available options are `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `critical`, `error`, `exceptions`.
This should be set to `exceptions` unless you're testing configuration in `debug`/`info` mode.

Dfault: `exceptions`

    config:
      loglevel: exceptions

--- 
### <i class="icon-book"></i>Identity Providers
If your API or resource requires authentication you're going to want to configure an identity provider.

This can be a built-in `requests.auth` provider or an external python module you've written or found to be an auth provider. Here is a configuration covering most implementations of requests authentication modules. 

    config:
      identity_providers:
        "exampleCustomProvider":
            "requests_py_module/className":
                module_kwarg_1: ""
                module_kwarg_2: ""
                module_kwarg_3: ""
        "winNT https://github.com/requests/requests-ntlm provider":
            "requests_ntlm/HttpNtlmAuth":
                username: "domain\\nt_admin"
                username: "password"
        "raxAuthProvider":
            "requests_openstack_identity/openIdentity":
                base_url: ""
                username: ""
                password: ""
        "basicProvider":
            "HTTPBasicAuth":
                username: "testuser"
                password: "staging"
        "digestProvider":
            "HTTPDigestAuth":
                username: "testuser"
                password: "staging"
        "openauthProvider":
            "oauthv1":
                oauthv1-application-key: "appkey"
                oauthv1-application-secret: "passw0rd"
                oauthv1-oauth_token: "token"
                oauthv1-token_secet: "secret"

---

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Example of of an API testSet configuration

    testSet:
    -  "my_cool_api":
        uri: https://my_private_api/health?json
        response_type: json
        identity_provider: basicProvider
        ok_http_code: 200
        testElements:
          - key: jdbc.pgsql
            jsonvalue: ./psqlstatus
            datatype: string
            metricname: PostgresStatus
            unit_of_measure: "events"
          - key: job.failureCount
            jsonvalue: ./jobFailure
            datatype: integer
            metricname: jobFailure
            unit_of_measure: "events"



.

`"my_cool_api":` is the profile name, not really important.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`uri`** is the resource with the JSON elements you wish to test.
> 
> **`identity_provider`** is a provider that you have defined in the above **identity provieers** section of this README. **NOTE** You can use `none` as a provider and no authentication will be made for requests.
> 
> **`ok_http_code`** is one, or a comme delimeted list of http code(s) that are acceptable for this check to work. The check will fail with exception output which can be caught by Zabbix as failing checks.
> 
> **`response_type`** is always `json` until we add a different module for xml.

#####Test Elements

Test elements are where the actual API response is parsed and check data is formulated.

- All items under **testElements** can also be referenced in the key name `item_key_format` configuration option to be used as item keys in Zabbix.
- All items under **testElements** will be sent as a low level discovery key/value to make the items available in item prototypes.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`key`** this is the key of your object
> 
> **`jsonvalue`** this is the path in json to your object
> 
>**`datatype`** this is one item, or a comma delimited list of item(s) to create item datatype(s) for. 
>
>**`metricname`** this is used in `item_key_format` to format the metric name.
>
>**`response_type`** is always json until XML support can be added.

--- 

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Zabbix host config
This controls where your Zabbix metrics are sent for collection.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`host`** is your Zabbix host
> 
> **`port`** is your Zabbix port

    config:
      zabbix:
        host: localhost
        port: 10051
        item_key_format: "url_monitor[{datatype}, {metricname}, {uri}]" 


##### item_key_format details

The `item_key_format` is the key format that should match your item prototype syntax in Zabbix UI.

Template substitution of variables are supported by the `{` and `}` characters, variables can be any key name within your `testElements` (see testSet configuration above) or can be one of two built-ins.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`{datatype}`** - Which is inherantly derived frm the datatype(s) defined in your testSet: testElements configuration. Probably a `string`, `counter` or `integer`
> 
> **`{uri}`** - The URI of test to be conducted which may be useful to pass to Zabbix also inherantly derived frm the uri defined in your testSet configuration



<i class="icon-file"></i>Complete Example
------------------
###<i class="icon-book"></i>Configure a webcheck in URL_monitor
Assume you have a web service at localhost serving a status page like this JSON blob below

	$ curl http://localhost:8888/status
	{"elements": [0, 1, 2], "api_status": {"mongo": "failed", "schedulerErrorCounts": 1461869481}}

You could write the following test expressions in your configuration to create Zabbix items out of pieces of information in your API response.

	testSet:
	-  "exampleAPI":
	    uri: http://localhost:8888/status
	    response_type: json
	    identity_provider: none
	    ok_http_code: 200,204
	    testElements:
	      - key: keyname
	        jsonvalue: ./api_status/mongo
	        datatype: string
	        metricname: "api_status_for_mongo"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"
	      - key: keyname2
	        jsonvalue: ./api_status/schedulerErrorCounts
	        datatype: integer
	        metricname: "schedulerErrorCounts"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"
	      - key: keyname3
	        jsonvalue: ./elements[1]
	        datatype: integer
	        metricname: "thing"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"


Then when you run the check you will see the following output (in debug mode)
	
	$ python url_monitor/main.py check -k exampleAPI --loglevel debug
	INFO:requests.packages.urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): localhost
	DEBUG:requests.packages.urllib3.connectionpool:"GET /status HTTP/1.1" 200 94
	DEBUG:root:Zabbix host localhost port 10051
	DEBUG:zbxsender:Sent payload: ZBXD�{
		"request":"sender data",
		"data":[
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[string, api_status_for_mongo, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":"failed",
				"clock":1461869579.57},
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[integer, schedulerErrorCounts, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":1461869579,
				"clock":1461869579.57},
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[integer, thing, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":0,
				"clock":1461869579.57}]
	}
	DEBUG:zbxsender:Got response from Zabbix: {u'info': u'processed: 3; failed: 0; total: 3; seconds spent: 0.000064', u'response': u'success'}
	INFO:zbxsender:processed: 3; failed: 0; total: 3; seconds spent: 0.000064


--- 

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure Zabbix UI

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Create Zabbix url_monitor template
Click `Configuration -> Templates` 

Click  `Create new template`


> **New Template Reference:**
>
> **`template_name`** can be `url_monitor`

Click `save`

---


#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure low-level discovery in Zabbix UI
Find the template you just created.

Click on `Discovery Rules`

Click on `Create discovery rule`


> **New Discovery Rule Reference:**
>
> **`name`** in this example `string` but you will want a discovery rule for each data-type you want Zabbix to support.
> 
> **`type`** External check goes here. This is an external plugin.
> 
> **`key`** This is your external command.
> 
>   Put `url_monitor[discover, -t, string]` here
>   This configures a discovery rule for generating item prototypes.
> 
> **`update interval`**(sec) Your choice.
> 
> **`Keep lost resources period (in days)`** we set to 1.
> 

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure Item Prototypes in Zabbix UI
Click on `Item prototypes` for the string discovery you just created.

Click `create item prototype`

> **New Item Prototype Reference:**
>
> **`name`** this is the name it will have in the items page, handy descriptive item.
> 
> You can use `integer-{#CHECKNAME}`
> 
> **`type`** Zabbix Trapper
> 
> **`key`** This is the string format that your item keys will have to come in as, we use common fields from the url_monitor.yaml for elements. 
> 
> You can use `url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}]`
>
> **`enabled`** should be true

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure basic triggers in Zabbix UI


Click on `Item triggers` for the string discovery you just created.

Click `create trigger prototype`

> **New Trigger Reference:**
>
> **`name`** You can use
> 
>      string trigger for url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}]
>       
> **`expression`** Can be
> 
>     {url_monitor:url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}].str(success)}#0

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Create host item in Zabbix

Go to `Configuration` -> `Hosts` 

Click `Create host`

> **New Host Reference:**
>
> **`host name`** Create a host called `url_monitor`
> 

Click `Templates`
> **New Host Reference:**
> 
>    Link new templates  `url_monitor`
> 
>    This will link to the template and should generate your triggers and item prototypes automatically.

Click `save`

--- 

<i class="icon-umbrella"></i>Licenses
------------------
Copyright 2016 Rackspace US, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

--- 

Other licensing applies:

| Project              | License                              |
| :------------------- | -----------------------------------: |
| Python               | Python Software Foundation License   |
| argparse             | Python Software Foundation License   | 
| textwrap             | Python Software Foundation License   | 
| logging              | by Vinay Sajip. All Rights Reserved  |
| requests             | Apache 2 License                     |
| PyYaml               | MIT                                  |
| zbxsend              | BSD                                  |
| **url_monitor**      | Apache 2 License                     |

<i class="icon-bug"></i>Issues
------------------
Please report any bugs or requests that you have using the GitHub issue tracker!

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i>Development
------------------
Install these following tools for a development environment.

Redhat:

        yum groupinstall "development tools"`
        yum install python-devel`

<i class="icon-heart"></i>Authors
------------------
* Jonathan Kelley
* Nick Bales

Commit message:

Add 'any' for valid http status codes

README.md, after:

Table of Contents
=================

  * [url_monitor](#url_monitor)
    * [Simple Installation](#simple-installation)
        * [Requirements](#requirements)
        * [Redhat install](#redhat-install)
        * [On other platforms](#on-other-platforms)
    * [<i></i> Basic Command Options](#-basic-command-options)
    * [<i></i>  Simple Plugin Usage on the CLI](#--simple-plugin-usage-on-the-cli)
      * [Running a check](#running-a-check)
      * [Return low level discovery items](#return-low-level-discovery-items)
    * [<i></i> Basic Configuration Options](#-basic-configuration-options)
      * [<i></i>Log level](#log-level)
      * [<i></i>Identity Providers](#identity-providers)
      * [<i></i>Example of of an API testSet configuration](#example-of-of-an-api-testset-configuration)
          * [Test Elements](#test-elements)
      * [<i></i>Zabbix host config](#zabbix-host-config)
          * [item_key_format details](#item_key_format-details)
    * [<i></i>Complete Example](#complete-example)
      * [<i></i>Configure a webcheck in URL_monitor](#configure-a-webcheck-in-url_monitor)
      * [<i></i>Configure Zabbix UI](#configure-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Create Zabbix url_monitor template](#create-zabbix-url_monitor-template)
        * [<i></i>Configure low-level discovery in Zabbix UI](#configure-low-level-discovery-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Configure Item Prototypes in Zabbix UI](#configure-item-prototypes-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Configure basic triggers in Zabbix UI](#configure-basic-triggers-in-zabbix-ui)
        * [<i></i>Create host item in Zabbix](#create-host-item-in-zabbix)
    * [<i></i>Licenses](#licenses)
    * [<i></i>Issues](#issues)
    * [<i></i>Development](#development)
    * [<i></i>Authors](#authors)

url_monitor
==========

It's a Zabbix plugin in Python that creates low level discovery items to monitor items/metrics in a JSON API. It supports multiple requests auth backends including oauth, basicauth, or your own custom requests auth  plugins. This plugin also reports metrics as items using the Zabbix_sender method supporting custom item key formats.

Simple Installation
------------------

#### Requirements
Python 2.7 or greater (2.6.6 or greater with spec file)
python-daemon does not work with py 2.6.6 in pip.

#### Redhat install
`make rpms` (on a redhat platform) and then install the generated artifact on your target system. 

#### On other platforms 
`python setup.py install`

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i> Basic Command Options
------------------
	usage: url_monitor [--help] [-h] [-V] [--key [KEY]] [--datatype [DATATYPE]] [-c CONFIG]
	              COMMAND
	
	positional arguments:
	  COMMAND

    optional commands:
      check
      discover
	
	optional arguments:
	  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
	  -V, --version         show program's version number and exit
	  --key [KEY], -k [KEY]
	                        Optional with `check` command. Can be used to run
	                        checks on a limited subset of item headings under
	                        testSet from the yaml config.
	  --datatype [DATATYPE], -t [DATATYPE]
	                        Required with `discover` command. This filters objects
	                        from the config that have a particular datatype. This
	                        data is used by low level discovery in Zabbix.
      -c [CONFIG], --config [CONFIG]
                            Specify custom config file, system default
                            /etc/url_monitor.yaml
      --loglevel [LOGLEVEL] Specify custom loglevel override. Available options
                            [debug, info, warn, critical, error, exceptions]

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i>  Simple Plugin Usage on the CLI
------------------
### Running a check
These two commands are used by the plugin  commands that the plugin uses for value transmission to Zabbix.

``$ url_monitor check`` Will run through all tests, collect the metrics and send a Zabbix item for each. Any checks with an error will return a failed check and exit of 1 for Zabbix.

``$ url_monitor check --key testSet_Name``
Will run a paticular test in the testSet. Useful for testing or custom setups.

To see what typical output could look like [see this section.](#configure-a-webcheck-in-url_monitor)

--- 

### Return low level discovery items
Low level discovery is used with the discover option.

``$ url_monitor discover --type strings``
This will look in the config for all testSet items that have the datatype strings set, and will expose the low level discovery format for Zabbix to create the items.

Running ``$ url_monitor discover`` will tell you which datatypes are available.




<i class="icon-file"></i> Basic Configuration Options
------------------
###  <i class="icon-book"></i>Log level
Available options are `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `critical`, `error`, `exceptions`.
This should be set to `exceptions` unless you're testing configuration in `debug`/`info` mode.

Dfault: `exceptions`

    config:
      loglevel: exceptions

--- 
### <i class="icon-book"></i>Identity Providers
If your API or resource requires authentication you're going to want to configure an identity provider.

This can be a built-in `requests.auth` provider or an external python module you've written or found to be an auth provider. Here is a configuration covering most implementations of requests authentication modules. 

    config:
      identity_providers:
        "exampleCustomProvider":
            "requests_py_module/className":
                module_kwarg_1: ""
                module_kwarg_2: ""
                module_kwarg_3: ""
        "winNT https://github.com/requests/requests-ntlm provider":
            "requests_ntlm/HttpNtlmAuth":
                username: "domain\\nt_admin"
                username: "password"
        "raxAuthProvider":
            "requests_openstack_identity/openIdentity":
                base_url: ""
                username: ""
                password: ""
        "basicProvider":
            "HTTPBasicAuth":
                username: "testuser"
                password: "staging"
        "digestProvider":
            "HTTPDigestAuth":
                username: "testuser"
                password: "staging"
        "openauthProvider":
            "oauthv1":
                oauthv1-application-key: "appkey"
                oauthv1-application-secret: "passw0rd"
                oauthv1-oauth_token: "token"
                oauthv1-token_secet: "secret"

---

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Example of of an API testSet configuration

    testSet:
    -  "my_cool_api":
        uri: https://my_private_api/health?json
        response_type: json
        identity_provider: basicProvider
        ok_http_code: 200
        testElements:
          - key: jdbc.pgsql
            jsonvalue: ./psqlstatus
            datatype: string
            metricname: PostgresStatus
            unit_of_measure: "events"
          - key: job.failureCount
            jsonvalue: ./jobFailure
            datatype: integer
            metricname: jobFailure
            unit_of_measure: "events"



.

`"my_cool_api":` is the profile name, not really important.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`uri`** is the resource with the JSON elements you wish to test.
> 
> **`identity_provider`** is a provider that you have defined in the above **identity provieers** section of this README. **NOTE** You can use `none` as a provider and no authentication will be made for requests.
> 
> **`ok_http_code`** is a single value, or a comma delimeted list of http code(s) that are acceptable for this check to work. The check will fail with exception output which can be caught by Zabbix as failing checks. **NOTE** You can use `any` value or in a list and valid codes from RFC 2616 will be included.

> **`response_type`** is always `json` until we add a different module for xml.

#####Test Elements

Test elements are where the actual API response is parsed and check data is formulated.

- All items under **testElements** can also be referenced in the key name `item_key_format` configuration option to be used as item keys in Zabbix.
- All items under **testElements** will be sent as a low level discovery key/value to make the items available in item prototypes.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`key`** this is the key of your object
> 
> **`jsonvalue`** this is the path in json to your object
> 
>**`datatype`** this is one item, or a comma delimited list of item(s) to create item datatype(s) for. 
>
>**`metricname`** this is used in `item_key_format` to format the metric name.
>
>**`response_type`** is always json until XML support can be added.

--- 

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Zabbix host config
This controls where your Zabbix metrics are sent for collection.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`host`** is your Zabbix host
> 
> **`port`** is your Zabbix port

    config:
      zabbix:
        host: localhost
        port: 10051
        item_key_format: "url_monitor[{datatype}, {metricname}, {uri}]" 


##### item_key_format details

The `item_key_format` is the key format that should match your item prototype syntax in Zabbix UI.

Template substitution of variables are supported by the `{` and `}` characters, variables can be any key name within your `testElements` (see testSet configuration above) or can be one of two built-ins.

> **Config Key Reference:**
>
> **`{datatype}`** - Which is inherantly derived frm the datatype(s) defined in your testSet: testElements configuration. Probably a `string`, `counter` or `integer`
> 
> **`{uri}`** - The URI of test to be conducted which may be useful to pass to Zabbix also inherantly derived frm the uri defined in your testSet configuration



<i class="icon-file"></i>Complete Example
------------------
###<i class="icon-book"></i>Configure a webcheck in URL_monitor
Assume you have a web service at localhost serving a status page like this JSON blob below

	$ curl http://localhost:8888/status
	{"elements": [0, 1, 2], "api_status": {"mongo": "failed", "schedulerErrorCounts": 1461869481}}

You could write the following test expressions in your configuration to create Zabbix items out of pieces of information in your API response.

	testSet:
	-  "exampleAPI":
	    uri: http://localhost:8888/status
	    response_type: json
	    identity_provider: none
	    ok_http_code: 200,204
	    testElements:
	      - key: keyname
	        jsonvalue: ./api_status/mongo
	        datatype: string
	        metricname: "api_status_for_mongo"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"
	      - key: keyname2
	        jsonvalue: ./api_status/schedulerErrorCounts
	        datatype: integer
	        metricname: "schedulerErrorCounts"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"
	      - key: keyname3
	        jsonvalue: ./elements[1]
	        datatype: integer
	        metricname: "thing"
	        unit_of_measure: "boolean"


Then when you run the check you will see the following output (in debug mode)
	
	$ python url_monitor/main.py check -k exampleAPI --loglevel debug
	INFO:requests.packages.urllib3.connectionpool:Starting new HTTP connection (1): localhost
	DEBUG:requests.packages.urllib3.connectionpool:"GET /status HTTP/1.1" 200 94
	DEBUG:root:Zabbix host localhost port 10051
	DEBUG:zbxsender:Sent payload: ZBXD�{
		"request":"sender data",
		"data":[
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[string, api_status_for_mongo, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":"failed",
				"clock":1461869579.57},
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[integer, schedulerErrorCounts, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":1461869579,
				"clock":1461869579.57},
			{
				"host":"url_monitor",
				"key":"url_monitor[integer, thing, http://localhost:8888/status]",
				"value":0,
				"clock":1461869579.57}]
	}
	DEBUG:zbxsender:Got response from Zabbix: {u'info': u'processed: 3; failed: 0; total: 3; seconds spent: 0.000064', u'response': u'success'}
	INFO:zbxsender:processed: 3; failed: 0; total: 3; seconds spent: 0.000064


--- 

### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure Zabbix UI

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Create Zabbix url_monitor template
Click `Configuration -> Templates` 

Click  `Create new template`


> **New Template Reference:**
>
> **`template_name`** can be `url_monitor`

Click `save`

---


#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure low-level discovery in Zabbix UI
Find the template you just created.

Click on `Discovery Rules`

Click on `Create discovery rule`


> **New Discovery Rule Reference:**
>
> **`name`** in this example `string` but you will want a discovery rule for each data-type you want Zabbix to support.
> 
> **`type`** External check goes here. This is an external plugin.
> 
> **`key`** This is your external command.
> 
>   Put `url_monitor[discover, -t, string]` here
>   This configures a discovery rule for generating item prototypes.
> 
> **`update interval`**(sec) Your choice.
> 
> **`Keep lost resources period (in days)`** we set to 1.
> 

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure Item Prototypes in Zabbix UI
Click on `Item prototypes` for the string discovery you just created.

Click `create item prototype`

> **New Item Prototype Reference:**
>
> **`name`** this is the name it will have in the items page, handy descriptive item.
> 
> You can use `integer-{#CHECKNAME}`
> 
> **`type`** Zabbix Trapper
> 
> **`key`** This is the string format that your item keys will have to come in as, we use common fields from the url_monitor.yaml for elements. 
> 
> You can use `url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}]`
>
> **`enabled`** should be true

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Configure basic triggers in Zabbix UI


Click on `Item triggers` for the string discovery you just created.

Click `create trigger prototype`

> **New Trigger Reference:**
>
> **`name`** You can use
> 
>      string trigger for url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}]
>       
> **`expression`** Can be
> 
>     {url_monitor:url_monitor[string, {#METRICNAME}, {#RESOURCE_URI}].str(success)}#0

Click `save`

--- 

#### <i class="icon-book"></i>Create host item in Zabbix

Go to `Configuration` -> `Hosts` 

Click `Create host`

> **New Host Reference:**
>
> **`host name`** Create a host called `url_monitor`
> 

Click `Templates`
> **New Host Reference:**
> 
>    Link new templates  `url_monitor`
> 
>    This will link to the template and should generate your triggers and item prototypes automatically.

Click `save`

--- 

<i class="icon-umbrella"></i>Licenses
------------------
Copyright 2016 Rackspace US, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

--- 

Other licensing applies:

| Project              | License                              |
| :------------------- | -----------------------------------: |
| Python               | Python Software Foundation License   |
| argparse             | Python Software Foundation License   | 
| textwrap             | Python Software Foundation License   | 
| logging              | by Vinay Sajip. All Rights Reserved  |
| requests             | Apache 2 License                     |
| PyYaml               | MIT                                  |
| zbxsend              | BSD                                  |
| **url_monitor**      | Apache 2 License                     |

<i class="icon-bug"></i>Issues
------------------
Please report any bugs or requests that you have using the GitHub issue tracker!

<i class="icon-keyboard"></i>Development
------------------
Install these following tools for a development environment.

Redhat:

        yum groupinstall "development tools"`
        yum install python-devel`

<i class="icon-heart"></i>Authors
------------------
* Jonathan Kelley
* Nick Bales
